This file summarizes the usage of at least some of the applications
in this directory (more to come).

GCL means "GDP Channel/Log".  GCLs consist of a series of opaque
(to the GDP) records numbered from 1.  Although records also have
commit timestamps it is not possible to use those as keys at this
time; in particular, timestamps are not necessarily unique.

Nearly all programs accept a "-D" flag to set debugging options.


NAMING

Internal GCL names are represented as binary strings of 256 bits.
Externally this is shown as a 43-character string that is a variant
on base64 encoding designed to be compatible with URIs.

Alternatively, a user may use an arbitrary string.  It is recommended
that this look like a UNIX pathname but using another character as
the separator (to make the names easy to encode in a URI).  The valid
characters for URIs are "-", "_", ".", and "~".  This string is
hashed to an internal name using sha256.  For example, the name
"x" is the same as "LXEWQrcmsEQBYnyp-6wy9chTD7GQPMTbAiWHF5IaSIE".
At the moment all users share a namespace, but in the future the
user's public key will be included.


GDP-WRITER

The gdp-writer program creates or appends to a GCL.  Although
the GDP accepts binary input, this program reads newline terminated
text from the standard input.  Each line is written to the GCL
named on the command line, or if no name is given, to a GCL with
a random name (which will be printed).

GCLs are created unless the -a (append) flag is included.


GDP-READER

The gdp-reader program (unsurprisingly) reads and prints data from
a GCL.  It assumes that the data is text; if not it will print random
binary gibberish.

There are three "modes" for reading.  The default does individual
read calls for each record being returned.  The "-m" flag enables
"multiread" which does one call to the GDP that returns multiple
results.  The "-s" flag enables "subscribe" mode, which is like
multiread but waits for new data to be written to a GCL (i.e., it
doesn't necessarily complete in finite time).

All modes take a "-f" flag to specify the first record number and a
"-n" flag to set the number of records to be returned.  If the -f
value is negative it counts from the end of the GCL, i.e., the
most recently written records.  If a negative -f value would specify
a non-positive record number (i.e., a record before the start of the
GCL) then 1 is used.

If the -n value is zero it means "infinite" (this is also the
default).  For all but -s mode this really means "end of GCL", as
does a value larger than the actual number of records in the GCL.
Hence, "-n N" really means "at most N records".

In -s mode the read will will continue to wait for more data to be
published to the GCL.  For example, the following commands will act
as a transmission channel:

	Window 1>	gdp-writer xyzzy
	Window 2>	gdp-reader -s xyzzy
	Window 1>	(input data)

Note that the gdp-writer has to be started first so that xyzzy
exists when gdp-reader starts up.


GDP-REST

This is the REST interface to the GDP.  Its use is described in the
README file in the parent directory.


RW-BENCH

Simple performance testing.  Documentation is To Be Done.
